The User Interfaces for Theorem Provers workshop series
(http://www.informatik.uni-bremen.de/uitp) provides a forum for researchers
interested in improving human interaction with interactive and automated
deduction systems in a broad sense, including first- and higher-order theorem
provers, sat-solvers, smt-solvers, proof assistants, description logic
reasoners, expert systems, logic programming interpreters, tools for formal
methods, and tools for manipulating and presenting mathematical formulas and
proofs. For the forthcoming 11th UITP workshop, we invite contributions from
users and developers of deduction tools, to report on their experience with
existing systems and to discuss new directions. Topics under the scope of
UITP include (non-exhaustively):

Experiments and evaluation of prover interfaces
Application-specific interaction mechanisms
Interfaces for expert systems
New designs for prover interfaces
Performance/responsiveness of user interface for theorem provers
Proof scripting languages
Proof formats for authoring, exchanging and presenting proofs
Implementation techniques (e.g. web services, custom middleware, DSLs, parallelism)
Infra-structure for sharing and using benchmarks for theorem proving
Summarization of proofs
Visualization of proofs
Visualization of large structured deduction problems
User-friendly repositories of formal mathematical knowledge
Mobile interfaces (iPhone or Android clients for deduction tools)
System descriptions
...
Paper Submissions

Submitted papers should describe previously unpublished work (completed or in
progress), and be at least 4 pages and at most 12 pages. We encourage concise
and relevant papers. Submissions should be in PDF format, and typeset with
the EPTCS LaTeX document class (which can be downloaded from
http://style.eptcs.org/). Submission should be done via EasyChair
(https://www.easychair.org/conferences/?conf=uitp14).

All papers will be peer reviewed by members of the programme committee and
selected by the organizers in accordance with the referee reports. There will
be 2-3 reviews per paper.

Proceedings

Authors will have the opportunity to incorporate feedback and insights
gathered during the workshop to improve their accepted papers before
publication in the Electronic Proceedings in Theoretical Computer Science
(EPTCS - http://www.eptcs.org/).
